

===== PAGE 1 =====

Mohammed Abouzaid
February 3, 2026
Remark 1. This note is expanded from a short motivating discussion in a research paper that is
supposed to develop a theory of polyhedral Lagrangian submanifolds for the purpose of being able
to use computers to explore conjectures in symplectic topology. It includes some details that would
normally be omitted (e.g. the proof of Lemma 1, which is a linear algebra exercise, and much of the
explanation about closed 1-forms). The paper does not cite any references as the reader is assumed
to be able to deduce all asserted results from standard references, e.g. [1, 2].
I would like to thank Kyler Siegel and Umut Varolgunes for helpful discussions around this
circle of ideas.
For the purpose of this note, we equip R4 with coordinates (q1, q2, p1, p2), and with the standard
symplectic form ω = dp1 ∧ dq1 + dp2 ∧ dq2.
Definition 1. A polyhedral Lagrangian surface in R4 is a finite polyhedral complex all of whose
faces are Lagrangians, and which is a topological submanifold of R4.
Proposition 1. If K is a polyhedral Lagrangian surface with the property that exactly 4 faces
meet at every vertex, then there is a Hamiltonian isotopy Kt of smooth Lagrangian submanifolds,
parameterised by (0 , 1], extending to a topological isotopy, parametrised by [0 , 1], with endpoint
K0 = K.
In order to prove this result, we need two preliminary results: a local statement asserting trivial-
ity near each vertex, and a global statement implying the compatibility of these local trivialisations.
Lemma 1. For each embedding R2 → R4 which is linear on the four quadrants with Lagrangian
image, and whose image Σ is not contained in a plane, there is a linear symplectic transformation
of R4 which maps Σ to the product of the union of the positive coordinate axes in R2
p1q1 and R2
p2q2.
Proof. Let ( v1, v2, u1, u2) denote tangent vectors at the origin to the edges of Σ, ordered so that
cyclically adjacent vectors span the faces of Σ. The pairings ω(vi, ui) cannot vanish, for otherwise
ω would identically vanish on a 3-dimensional linear subspace. By swapping the pair of coordinates
(vi, ui) if necessary, we may assume that both pairings are strictly positive, and by rescaling we may
assume that they are 1. We conclude that the vectors ( v1, v2, u1, u2) form a standard symplectic
basis for R4, and that the mapping ∂pi → vi and ∂qi → ui is the desired linear transformation.
In the plane R2
pq, the symplectic pairing projects the union of the positive axes homeomorphically
to the dual of the line p = q. Taking the product, and applying the previous Lemma, we conclude:
Corollary 1. There exists a linear Lagrangian plane L ⊂ R4 so that the symplectic pairing
R4 → L∨ defines a homeomorphism Σ → L∨.
The previous corollary in particular equips Σ with a smooth structure arising from its projection
to L∨. This smooth structure will be fixed for the remainder of the discussion.
1

===== PAGE 2 =====

Given a choice of plane L, we say that a Lagrangian Λ ⊂ R4 is graphical if the symplectic pairing
defines a diffeomorphism Λ ∼= L∨. If Σ were smooth, the standard description of Lagrangians in
cotangent bundles would imply that such Lagrangians bijectively correspond to smooth closed 1-
forms, which, because Σ is contractible and hence every closed form on it is exact, can be identified
with smooth functions modulo addition of constants. We shall formulate a replacement for this
correspondence that accounts for the singularities of Σ.
To this end, let us choose further a Lagrangian splitting of the projection R4 → L∨; we shall
later see that our constructions are independent of this choice. The splitting gives a direct sum
decomposition R4 ∼= L ⊕ L∨ (polarization), with respect to which the image of each quadrant is
graphical over L∨. Graphical (linear) Lagrangians bijectively correspond to quadratic forms, so we
obtain quadratic forms {qij}i,j∈± on L∨ whose graphs contain the corresponding faces of Σ. The
restriction of the quadratic forms associated to any two faces agree to first order along the images
in L∨ of the edges of Σ. Via the identification Σ ∼= L∨ from the previous corollary, we write qΣ
for the C1-function on Σ whose restriction to each face is given by the composition of qij with the
projection to L∨. We use this to obtain an explicit description of the desired local smoothings,
which will be essential in establishing the required global smoothability:
Definition 2. The space S (Σ) of smoothing functions for Σ is the space of C1 functions f : Σ → R
satisfying the property that the function on f + qΣ is infinitely differentiable.
It follows immediately from the definition that S (Σ) is invariant under addition of smooth
functions, which will be used in the next result:
Lemma 2. The space of smoothing functions S (Σ) depends only on L (and not on the splitting
of the projection R4 → L∨).
Proof. A different choice of complementary subspaces correspond to adding a quadratic form q′ to
qij, and the corresponding smooth function on Σ to qΣ.
We shall now associate a graphical Lagrangian to each smoothing function: the construction
relies on the fact that the union of all translates of L passing through a face of Σ is canonically
symplectomorphic to the cotangent bundle of Σ, with the cotangent fibre at z ∈ Σ corresponding to
the translate of L passing through z. In this way, a smoothing function f determines a Lagrangian
Λd f ⊂ R4, piecewise as the graph of the restriction of the differential d fto each face.
Lemma 3. The assignment f 7→ Λd f determines a bijective correspondence between graphical
Lagrangians and smoothing functions on Σ up to addition of constants.
Proof. In terms of the polarization from the discussion preceding Definition 2, the Lagrangian Λ d f
corresponds to the graph of the differential of the function f + qΣ considered as a function on L∨
via the projection map, because each face of Σ is the graph of dqij. The result now follows from
the fact that graphical Lagrangians over L∨ are graphs of differentials of smooth functions.
Note that while the proof uses the polarization, the construction does not. As in Lemma 2, we
conclude that this bijection depends only on the choice of Lagrangian L.
The above completes our local analysis near vertices. Near edges, the analysis is much simpler:
Lemma 4. If Σ consists of a pair of linear Lagrangian half-planes in R4 meeting along a line ℓ, then
the space of Lagrangian subspaces L, satisfying the property that the symplectic pairing Σ → L∨
is a homeomorphism, is contractible.
2

===== PAGE 3 =====

Proof. The submanifold Σ is equivalent by (affine) linear symplectic transformations to the sym-
plectic product of the real axis in an R2 factor with the piecewise Lagrangian consisting of the
positive axes in another. If the projection Σ → L∨ is a homeomorphism, then L must be transverse
to both Lagrangian half-planes comprising Σ. This implies that the symplectic reduction of L along
ℓ (i.e. the image under the quotient by ℓ of the intersection of L with the symplectic annihilator ℓ⊥)
is a line transverse to two coordinate lines in ℓ⊥/ℓ ∼= R2, and Σ projects homeomorphically to L∨
if and only if this reduction intersects the interior of the positive quadrant, which is a contractible
condition. The argument is completed by noting that the space of Lagrangian lifts of a line ℓ′ in R2
is contractible: any two lifts to ℓ⊥ differ by the graph of a map from ℓ′ to ℓ, and L is determined
up to contractible choice by L ∩ ℓ⊥, since it must lie in the symplectic orthogonal of this line, and
the space of planes in R3 containing a given line (in this case L ∩ ℓ⊥) and avoiding another line (in
this case ℓ) is contractible.
Extending Definitions 2 and 3 verbatim to the case of a pair of edges, we obtain the analogue
of Lemma 3, using a splitting into factors as in the above proof.
In the global setting, we cannot work with translates with a single Lagrangian, so we need
to consider a family Lz of Lagrangian planes, passing through each point z ∈ Σ, which are not
necessarily translates of each other. We shall require four properties of such a family, the first three
of which are easy to state:
1. Lz consists of translates of a single Lagrangian near the origin.
2. Lz varies smoothly along the edges.
3. Lz varies smoothly along the faces.
To formulate the last property, say that σ and σ′ are faces meeting along an edge τ, and let z be
a point on τ. The choice of Lz determines an identification
Tzσ ∼= L∨
z ∼= Tzσ′
which is compatible with the inclusion of Tzτ on both sides. A matched normal field along τ is
a choice of sections of T σ|τ and T σ′|τ which are inward pointing, and are opposite vectors under
the above identification. For simplicity, we require this normal field, at the origin τ, to point along
the direction of the edge of σ (or σ′) which meets τ. Because the faces of Σ are flat, this choice
therefore determines an embedding τ × [0, ϵ) → σ, which is a collar neighbourhood (and similarly
for σ′).
Definition 3. A conormal fibration dual to Σ is a family Lz of (affine)-linear Lagrangian planes
in R4, parametrised by z ∈ Σ, satisfying the above three properties and so that, in a collar of each
edge, the Lagrangians in the normal direction are translates of the Lagrangians along the edge.
The choice of collars in the above construction determines a smooth structure on Σ by using
negative coordinates on one of the collars as well as the identification ( −ϵ, 0] ∪ [0, ϵ) ∼= (−ϵ, ϵ). This
is an a priori different way of constructing a smooth structure than our earlier formulation, and the
next result asserts the compatibility of these contructions; in this setting, we choose an affine-linear
Lagrangian Λz passing through z, which is transverse to Lz, and consider the (locally defined) map
from Σ to Λz which assigns to z′ ∈ Σ near z the intersection points Lz′ ∩Λz which is unique because
Lz is close to Lz′.
Lemma 5. The projection map to Λ z is a local diffeomorphism.
3

===== PAGE 4 =====

Proof. The only case that needs to be discussed is when z lies on an edge τ. The condition that
Lz′ be given by translates along the collar direction implies that this map may be written along
the collar of τ in a face σ as (t, s) 7→ γ(t) +s · νσ(t), where t is the coordinate along τ and s ∈ [0, ϵ)
is the coordinate in the normal direction. The requirement that the normal fields are matched is
equivalent to the condition that νσ = −νσ′ if σ and σ′ are the two faces meeting along τ. The
smoothness of the map is immediate from this description.
Whenever the family Lz does not consist of translates, the Lagrangians Lz will have non-empty
intersections. However, such intersections always take place outside some open neighbourhood νΣ
of Σ, which we now fix. As before, the fibration Lz determines a projection νΣ → Σ. We say
that a Lagrangian is graphical with respect to Lz if it is contained in this neighbourhood, and its
projection to Σ is a diffeomorphism.
Lemma 6. Every graphical Lagrangian with respect to Lz arises as the graph of a smoothing func-
tion. Moreover, any smoothing function whose differential is sufficiently small defines a graphical
Lagrangian.
Proof. The correspondence between graphical Lagrangians and smoothing functions is local on
Σ. It thus suffices to consider a point z ∈ Σ, and observe that a Lagrangian plane L∨
z which is
transverse to Lz at z will also be transverse to nearby fibres, so that a neighbourhood of z in νΣ
is modelled after the conormal bundle of L∨
z , by Weinstein’s tubular neighbourhood theorem. The
result then follows by the standard construction of Lagrangians as graphs of closed 1-forms.
In order for the previous result to be helpful, we need to be able to produce the desired functions;
this is not completely obvious because the space of smoothing functions is not invariant under
rescaling:
Lemma 7. There exist smoothing functions of arbitrarily small C1-norm.
Proof. As a preliminary step, choose a partition of unity P
σ χσ = 1 on Σ, of bounded Ck-norms
for all k, indexed by the strata of Σ, so that χσ vanishes outside a small neighbourhood of σ and
its restriction to σ is identically 1 in the complement of a small neighbourhood of the boundary
of σ. If χϵ
σ is the composition of χσ with the dilation of the plane by 1 /ϵ, we obtain a family of
partitions of unity which are uniformly bounded, and whose C1-norms are bounded by a constant
multiple of 1/ϵ.
We now choose a Lagrangian plane Λ σ which contains each stratum σ ⊂ Σ, and which is
transverse to L, and let fσ denote the corresponding smoothing function. Note that the tangency
conditions imply that the functions fσ and fσ′ agree to first order along σ ∩ σ′. Let f ϵ denote the
function P χϵ
σfσ. The fact that f ϵ
σ is a family of smoothing functions follows from the partition of
unity, and the fact that the C1-norm is bounded follows from the product rule and the observation
that, while the norm of the gradient of χϵ
σ grows like 1 /ϵ, it is supported in a region where the
difference between fσ and fσ′ is bounded by a constant multiple of ϵ2.
We now proceed with the global part of the argument, and thus return to the setting where K
is a polyhedral Lagrangian surface in R4. The first step is to globalise the choice of L:
Definition 4. A conormal fibration dual to K is a smoothly varying family Lz of (affine)-linear La-
grangian planes in R4, parametrised by z ∈ K, which locally satisfies the properties from Definition
3.
Lemma 8. The surface K admits a dual conormal fibration which, near vertex, agrees with the
choice given by Corollary 1.
4

===== PAGE 5 =====

Proof. Lemma 4 implies that the choices near the vertices may be extended to the edges. Choosing
a normal vector field to one of the faces that meets along an edge determines matched normals,
and the extension to the interior of the faces is then standard, as the space of Lagrangian planes
transverse to a given one is contractible.
The conormal fibration determines a subset S (K) of the space of C1-functions consisting of
those functions which are smooth in the interior of each face, and which are smoothing functions
in the sense of Definition 2 near each edge and vertex.
Lemma 9. There exist smoothing functions for K of arbitrarily small C1-norm.
Proof. Choose a partition of unity P
α ρα = 1 on K, indexed by the strata of K, so that ρα is
supported in the open star of α (the union of all strata adjacent to it). Lemma 7 asserts the
existence of smoothing functions fα of arbitrarily small C1-norm defined on the open star of α.
The function P
α ραfα satisfies the desired property.
We now arrive at the proof of the main result, which mostly consists of assembling together all
the previous steps:
Proof of Proposition 1. We have a neighbourhood νK of K in R4 in which the conormal fibres Lz
are disjoint. The statement of Lemma 6 and its proof apply verbatim to this space, replacing K
by Σ. The existence of sufficiently many global smoothing functions is guaranteed by Lemma 9.
As a consequence, we obtain a sequence Ki of smooth embedded Lagrangians, which are all
isotopic to K by a piecewise smooth isotopy and converge to it, that are moreover graphs of
differentials of smooth functions (over each other) with respect to the fibration{Lz}. This graphical
description yields a smooth Hamiltonian path of graphical Lagrangians connecting Ki to Ki+1, and
smoothing the concatenation of these paths yields the desired result.
References
[1] M. W. Hirsch. Differential Topology. Graduate Texts in Mathematics. Springer, 1976.
[2] D. McDuff and D. Salamon. Introduction to Symplectic Topology. Oxford Mathematical Mono-
graphs. Oxford University Press, third edition, 2017.
5